# Create an Internal Load Balancer

## Theory

An internal (or private) load balancer is used where private IPs are needed at the frontend only. Internal load balancers are used to load balance traffic inside a virtual network. A load balancer frontend can be accessed from an on-premises network in a hybrid scenario.

Google Cloud offers Internal Load Balancing for your TCP/UDP-based traffic. Internal Load Balancing enables you to run and scale your services behind a private load balancing IP address that is accessible only to your internal virtual machine instances.

Managed instance groups offer autoscaling capabilities that allow you to automatically add or remove instances from a managed instance group based on increases or decreases in load. Autoscaling helps your applications gracefully handle increases in traffic and reduces cost when the need for resources is lower. You just define the autoscaling policy and the autoscaler performs automatic scaling based on the measured load.

## What we did

In this lab, we learnt:-

1. Create HTTP and health check firewall rules
2. Configure two instance templates
3. Create two managed instance groups
4. Configure and test an internal load balancer


## Tasks Performed
1. Configure HTTP and health check firewall rules
2. Configure instance templates and create instance groups
3. Configure the Internal Load Balancer
4. Test the Internal Load Balancer

## New Terms

1. **Instance Template** -- An instance template is an API resource that you can use to create VM instances and managed instance groups. Instance templates define the machine type, boot disk image, subnet, labels, and other instance properties.

2. **curl** -- The curl commands demonstrate that each VM instance lists the Client IP and its own name and location. This will be useful when verifying that the Internal Load Balancer sends traffic to both backends.

3. **Health Checks** -- Health checks determine which instances can receive new connections. This HTTP health check polls instances every 5 seconds, waits up to 5 seconds for a response and treats 2 successful or 2 failed attempts as healthy or unhealthy, respectively.