# HTTP Load Balancer with Cloud Armor

## Theory
Google Cloud HTTP(S) load balancing is implemented at the edge of Google's network in Google's points of presence (POP) around the world. User traffic directed to an HTTP(S) load balancer enters the POP closest to the user and is then load balanced over Google's global network to the closest backend that has sufficient capacity available.

Cloud Armor IP allowlist/denylist enable you to restrict or allow access to your HTTP(S) load balancer at the edge of the Google Cloud, as close as possible to the user and to malicious traffic. This prevents malicious users or traffic from consuming resources or entering your virtual private cloud (VPC) networks.

Health checks determine which instances of a load balancer can receive new connections. For HTTP load balancing, the health check probes to your load balanced instances come from addresses in the ranges 130.211.0.0/22 and 35.191.0.0/16. Your firewall rules must allow these connections.

A managed instance group uses an instance template to create a group of identical instances. Use these to create the backends of the HTTP Load Balancer.

## What we did

In this lab, we learnt:-

1. Create HTTP and health check firewall rules.
2. Configure two instance templates.
3. Create two managed instance groups.
4. Configure an HTTP load balancer with IPv4 and IPv6.
5. Stress test an HTTP load balancer.
6. Blocklist an IP address to restrict access to an HTTP load balancer.


## Tasks Performed
1. Configure HTTP and health check firewall rules
2. Configure instance templates and create instance groups
3. Configure the HTTP Load Balancer
4. Test the HTTP Load Balancer

## New Terms

1. **Health Check**: Health checks are linked to an entire backend service. In the case of an external passthrough Network Load Balancer based on target pools, a legacy HTTP health check is connected to the whole target pool. This means that the settings for the health check are uniform for all the backends included in a specific backend service or target pool.

2. **Target Tags**: The target tag specifies which Google Cloud VMs the rule affects. This rule is linked to a particular VPC network and is applied to the main internal IP address of any instance connected to that VPC network if it has a matching network tag.

3. **Instance Template**:An instance template is an API resource that you use to create VM instances and managed instance groups. Instance templates define the machine type, boot disk image, subnet, labels, and other instance properties