# Cloud Monitoring: Qwik Start

## Theory
Cloud Monitoring provides visibility into the performance, uptime, and overall health of cloud-powered applications. Cloud Monitoring collects metrics, events, and metadata from Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services, hosted uptime probes, application instrumentation, and a variety of common application components including Cassandra, Nginx, Apache Web Server, Elasticsearch, and many others. Cloud Monitoring ingests that data and generates insights via dashboards, charts, and alerts. Cloud Monitoring alerting helps you collaborate by integrating with Slack, PagerDuty, HipChat, Campfire, and more.

You can display the metrics collected by Cloud Monitoring in your own charts and dashboards. Cloud Monitoring and Cloud Logging are closely integrated.

## What we did

In this lab, we learnt:-

1. Create a Compute Engine instance.
2. Add an Apache2 HTTP server to the instance.
3. Create an uptime check and alerting policy.
4. Create a dashboard and chart.
5. View logs.
6. Check the uptime check results and triggered alerts.


## Tasks Performed
1. Create a Compute Engine instance
2. Add Apache2 HTTP Server to your instance
3. Create an uptime check
4. Create an alerting policy
5. Create a dashboard and chart
6. View your logs
7. Check the uptime check results and triggered alerts

## New Terms

1. **Uptime Check**: A public uptime check can issue requests from multiple locations throughout the world to publicly available URLs or Google Cloud resources to see whether the resource responds.

2. **Alerting Policy**: An alerting policy, which describes the circumstances under which you want to be alerted and how you want to be notified about an incident. The alerting policy can monitor time-series data stored by Cloud Monitoring or logs stored by Cloud Logging.
