# Google Cloud Pub/Sub: Qwik Start - Python

## Theory
Pub/Sub is an asynchronous and scalable messaging service that decouples services producing messages from services processing those messages.

Pub/Sub allows services to communicate asynchronously, with latencies on the order of 100 milliseconds.

Pub/Sub is used for streaming analytics and data integration pipelines to ingest and distribute data. It's equally effective as a messaging-oriented middleware for service integration or as a queue to parallelize tasks.

The Google Cloud Pub/Sub service allows applications to exchange messages reliably, quickly, and asynchronously. To accomplish this, a data producer publishes messages to a Cloud Pub/Sub topic. A subscriber client then creates a subscription to that topic and consumes messages from the subscription. Cloud Pub/Sub persists messages that could not be delivered reliably for up to seven days.

A topic is a shared string that allows applications to connect with one another through a common thread.

Publishers push (or publish) a message to a Cloud Pub/Sub topic. Subscribers will then make a subscription to that thread, where they will either pull messages from the topic or configure webhooks for push subscriptions. Every subscriber must acknowledge each message within a configurable window of time.

In sum, a publisher creates and sends messages to a topic and a subscriber creates a subscription to a topic to receive messages from it.


## What we did

In this lab, we learnt how to:-
1. Learn the basics of Pub/Sub.
2. Create and list a Pub/Sub topic.
3. Create and list a Pub/Sub subscription.
4. Publish messages to a topic.
5. Use a pull subscriber to output individual topic messages.

## Tasks Performed
1. Create a virtual environment
2. Install the client library
3. Pub/Sub - the Basics
4. Create a topic
5. Create a subscription
6. Publish messages
7. View messages 

## New Terms 

1. Creating a virtual library involves three steps

--- Install the Virtual environment
```cmd
sudo apt-get install -y virtualenv
```

--- Build the virtual environment
```cmd
python3 -m venv venv
```

--- Activate the virtual environment.
```cmd
source venv/bin/activate
```

2. We have to run a publisher script to run a pub sub topic
```cmd
python publisher.py $GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT create MyTopic
```

Then, 

```cmd
python subscriber.py $GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT create MyTopic MySub
```

3. To publish messages we have to set up the topic and a subscription to the same.

Now that you've set up MyTopic (the topic), a subscription to MyTopic (MySub), see if you can use gcloud commands to publish a message to MyTopic.

```cmd
gcloud pubsub topics publish MyTopic --message "Hello"
```

4. To view the messages:

```cmd
python subscriber.py $GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT receive MySub
```