# Perform Foundational Infrastructure Tasks in Google Cloud: Challenge Lab

## Overview

This is a challenge lab in the program and we were to implement the learnings of labs:-
1. GSP064 -- (**Cloud IAM: Qwik Start**) 
2. GSP074 -- (**Cloud Storage: Qwik Start - CLI/SDK**)
3. GSP080 -- (**Cloud Functions: Qwik Start - Command Line**)
4. GSP089 -- (**Cloud Monitoring: Qwik Start**)
5. GSP094 -- (**APIs Explorer: Qwik Start**)

## Challenge Scenario

You are just starting your junior cloud engineer role with Jooli inc. So far you have been helping teams create and manage Google Cloud resources.

You are expected to have the skills and knowledge for these tasks so don’t expect step-by-step guides.

You are now asked to help a newly formed development team with some of their initial work on a new project around storing and organizing photographs, called memories. You have been asked to assist the memories team with initial configuration for their application development environment; you receive the following request to complete the following tasks:

1. Create a bucket for storing the photographs.
2. Create a Pub/Sub topic that will be used by a Cloud Function you create.
3. Create a Cloud Function.
4. Remove the previous cloud engineer’s access from the memories project.

Some Jooli Inc. standards you should follow:

1. Create all resources in the REGION region and ZONE zone, unless otherwise directed.
2. Use the project VPCs.
3. Naming is normally team-resource, e.g. an instance could be named kraken-webserver1
4. Allocate cost effective resource sizes. Projects are monitored and excessive resource use will result in the containing project's termination (and possibly yours), so beware. This is the guidance the monitoring team is willing to share; unless directed, use e2-micro for small Linux VMs and e2-medium for Windows or other applications such as Kubernetes nodes.

