# App Engine: Qwik Start - Python

## Theory
App Engine allows developers to focus on doing what they do best, writing code, and not what it runs on. Developers upload their apps to App Engine, and Google Cloud takes care of the rest. The notion of servers, virtual machines, and instances have been abstracted away, with App Engine providing all the compute necessary. Developers don't have to worry about operating systems, web servers, logging, monitoring, load-balancing, system administration, or scaling, as App Engine takes care of all that. Developers only need to focus on building solutions for their organizations or their users.

The App Engine standard environment provides application-hosting services supporting the following languages: Python, Java, PHP, Go, Node.js, and Ruby. The App Engine flexible environment provides even more flexibility by supporting custom runtimes, however it is out-of-scope for this lab.

App Engine is Google Cloud's original serverless runtime, and since its original launch in 2008, has been joined by:

1. Cloud Functions, great for situations where you don't have an entire app, have broken up a larger, monolithic app into multiple microservices, or have short event-driven tasks that execute based on user activity.
2. Cloud Run, the serverless container-hosting service similar to App Engine but more accurately reflects the state of software development today.


## What we did

In this lab, we learnt:-

1. To Clone/download, Test, Update and Deploy with a Python App
2. Deploy a basic app to App Engine

We used the deploy, browse statements to do the same for the app

```cmd
gcloud app deploy
```

```cmd
gcloud app browse
```

## New Terms

1. App Engine Admin API:--  Provisions and manages developers' App Engine applications.

2. **"cd"** command in Linux known as the change directory command and **"git"** is a version control system used for tracking changes in computer files. It is generally used for source code management in software development. 

3. **app.yaml** :-- This file specifies how URL paths correspond to request handlers and static files. The app. yaml file also contains information about your app's code, such as the runtime and the latest version identifier. Each service in your app has its own app. yaml file, which acts as a descriptor for its deployment.