# Getting Started with Cloud Shell and gcloud

## Theory
Cloud Shell provides you with command-line access to computing resources hosted on Google Cloud. Cloud Shell is a Debian-based virtual machine with a persistent 5-GB home directory, which makes it easy for you to manage your Google Cloud projects and resources. The gcloud command-line tool and other utilities you need are pre-installed in Cloud Shell, which allows you to get up and running quickly.

Cloud Shell is a virtual machine that is loaded with development tools. It offers a persistent 5GB home directory and runs on the Google Cloud. Cloud Shell provides command-line access to your Google Cloud resources.

Certain Google Compute Engine resources live in regions or zones. A region is a specific geographical location where you can run your resources. Each region has one or more zones. For example, the us-central1 region denotes a region in the Central United States that has zones us-central1-a, us-central1-b, us-central1-c, and us-central1-f

Resources that live in a zone are referred to as zonal resources. Virtual machine instances and persistent disks live in a zone. If you want to attach a persistent disk to a virtual machine instance, both resources must be in the same zone. Similarly, if you want to assign a static IP address to an instance, the instance must be in the same region as the static IP address.

## What we did

In this lab, we:

1. Configuring your environment
2. Connect to compute services hosted on Google Cloud.
3. Learnt about standard Linux text editors vim,emacs and nano

## Tasks Performed

1. Create a new instance from the Cloud console
2. Filtering command-line output
3. Connecting to your VM instance
4. Updating the firewall
5. Viewing the system logs


## New terms 

1. VM instances: An instance is a virtual machine (VM) hosted on Google's infrastructor. You can create an instance or create a group of managed instances by using the Google Cloud console, the Google Cloud CLI, or the Compute Engine API. The terms Compute Engine instance, virtual machine instance , VM instance, and VM are synonymous.

2. Firewall: Cloud firewalls are software-based, cloud deployed network devices, built to stop or mitigate unwanted access to private networks. As a new technology, they are designed for modern business needs, and sit within online application environments.