# Creating a Virtual Machine

## Theory
Compute Engine allows you to create virtual machines (VMs) that run different operating systems, including multiple flavors of Linux (Debian, Ubuntu, Suse, Red Hat, CoreOS) and Windows Server, on Google infrastructure. You can run thousands of virtual CPUs on a system that is designed to be fast and to offer strong consistency of performance.

## What we did

In this lab, we:

1. Create a VM with the Cloud console.
2. Create a VM with the gcloud command line.
3. Deploy a web server and connect it to a VM.

## Tasks Performed

1. Create a new instance from the Cloud console
2. Install an NGINX web server
3. Create a new instance with gcloud

## New terms 

1. **VM instances**: An instance is a virtual machine (VM) hosted on Google's infrastructor. You can create an instance or create a group of managed instances by using the Google Cloud console, the Google Cloud CLI, or the Compute Engine API. The terms Compute Engine instance, virtual machine instance , VM instance, and VM are synonymous.

2. **Variable Creation**: In the Cloud Shell, we can create variables using **export**

For example, to create a variable REGION, we use 
```cmd 
export REGION=REGION_NAME
```

3. **Machine Types**: Machine types determine the physical specifications of your machines, such as the amount of memory, virtual cores, and persistent disk limits an instance. There are many machine types, for example: 2v CPU --> This is an (e2-medium), 2-CPU, 4GB RAM instance. Several machine types are available, ranging from micro instance types to 32-core/208GB RAM instance types.

4. **Boot Disk**: Boot disk is simply the first disk attached to the instance. It will have a boot loader and OS installed to it. It has same performance characteristics as any other Persistent Disk volumes you may attach to a VM (with a few minor exceptions). You can also install database and keep all the data on it.

5. **Secure Shell**: SSH, also known as Secure Shell or Secure Socket Shell, is a network protocol that gives users, particularly system administrators, a secure way to access a computer over an unsecured network. SSH also refers to the suite of utilities that implement the SSH protocol.

6. **NGINX** : NGINX is open-source web server software used for reverse proxy, load balancing, and caching. It provides HTTPS server capabilities and is mainly designed for maximum performance and stability. It also functions as a proxy server for email communications protocols, such as IMAP, POP3, and SMTP.

To install NGINX, we have to use **sudo apt-get install** and **sudo apt-get update**. These two commands are used to keep all of your packages up to date in Debian or a Debian-based Linux distribution

```cmd
sudo apt-get install -y nginx
```

To check whether it is running, we use the ps command which lists all running processes, but if you pass it the -aux option, it displays processes from all users, including root

```cmd
ps auwx | grep nginx
```