# Set Up Network and HTTP Load Balancers

## Theory
**Network Load balancer** (at layer 4): This is the distribution of traffic based on network variables, such as IP address and destination ports. It is layer 4 (TCP) and below and is not designed to take into consideration anything at the application layer such as content type, cookie data, custom headers, user location, or the application behavior. It is context-less, caring only about the network-layer information contained within the packets it is directing this way and that.

**HTTPS load balancer** (at Layer 7): This is the distribution of requests based on multiple variables, from the network layer to the application layer. It is context-aware and can direct requests based on any single variable as easily as it can a combination of variables. Applications are load balanced based on their peculiar behavior and not solely on server (operating system or virtualization layer) information.Provides the ability to route HTTP and HTTPS traffic based upon rules, host based or path based. Like an NLB, each Target can be on different ports.

HTTP(S) Load Balancing is implemented on Google Front End (GFE). GFEs are distributed globally and operate together using Google's global network and control plane. You can configure URL rules to route some URLs to one set of instances and route other URLs to other instances.

Requests are always routed to the instance group that is closest to the user, if that group has enough capacity and is appropriate for the request. If the closest group does not have enough capacity, the request is sent to the closest group that does have capacity.

To set up a load balancer with a Compute Engine backend, your VMs need to be in an instance group. The managed instance group provides VMs running the backend servers of an external HTTP load balancer

## What we did

In this lab, we:

1. Set up a network load balancer.
2. Set up an HTTP load balancer.
3. Get hands-on experience learning the differences between network load balancers and HTTP load balancers.


## Tasks Performed

1. Set the default region and zone for all resources
2. Create multiple web server instances
3. Configure the load balancing service
4. Sending traffic to your instances
5. Create an HTTP load balancer
6. Testing traffic sent to your instances


## New terms 

Managed instance groups (MIGs): They let you operate apps on multiple identical VMs. You can make your workloads scalable and highly available by taking advantage of automated MIG services, including: autoscaling, autohealing, regional (multiple zone) deployment, and automatic updating.