# Kubernetes Engine: Qwik Start

## Theory
**Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)** provides a managed environment for deploying, managing, and scaling your containerized applications using Google infrastructure. The Kubernetes Engine environment consists of multiple machines (specifically Compute Engine instances) grouped to form a container cluster. In this lab, you get hands-on practice with container creation and application deployment with GKE.

Kubernetes draws on the same design principles that run popular Google services and provides the same benefits: automatic management, monitoring and liveness probes for application containers, automatic scaling, rolling updates, and more. When you run your applications on a container cluster, you're using technology based on Google's 10+ years of experience with running production workloads in containers.

GKE uses Kubernetes objects to create and manage your cluster's resources. Kubernetes provides the Deployment object for deploying stateless applications like web servers. Service objects define rules and load balancing for accessing your application from the internet.

## What we did

In this lab, we learnt how to deploy a containerized application with GKE

We set a **default compute zone** using the cloud shell and created a GKE cluster that function into the bucket. After which we tested and checked the data logs.

## Tasks Performed

1. Set a default compute zone
2. Create a GKE cluster
3. Get authentication credentials for the cluster
4. Deploy an application to the cluster
5. Deleting the cluster

# New Terms

1. Cluster and Node : A cluster consists of at least one cluster master machine and multiple worker machines called nodes. Nodes are Compute Engine virtual machine (VM) instances that run the Kubernetes processes necessary to make them part of the cluster.

2. To set a default compute region:

```cmd
gcloud config set compute/region "REGION"
```

3. To create a cluster
```cmd
gcloud container clusters create --machine-type=e2-medium --zone=ZONE lab-cluster
```

4. To delete the cluster
```cmd 
gcloud container clusters delete lab-cluster
```