# Get Started with Generative AI Studio

# Theory

**Vertex AI** is an end-to-end machine learning platform that helps you build, deploy, and scale machine learning models faster and easier. It provides a unified experience for managing all aspects of the machine learning lifecycle, from data preparation to model deployment.

**Vertex AI Generative AI Studio** is a cloud-based platform that allows users to create and experiment with generative AI models. The platform provides a variety of tools and resources that make it easy to get started with generative AI, even if you don't have a background in machine learning.

## What we did

In this lab,We:-
1. Create prompts with free-form and structured mode.
2. Create conversations.
3. Explore the prompt gallery.

We gave data into the model and gave it a test input to check how the AI would perform. We also created a conversation where we gave contexts and based on the same, the AI would give responses.

## New terms 

**Prompt Design** -- The process of figuring out and designing the best input text (prompt) to get the desired response back from the model is called Prompt Design.

There are 3 methods that you can use to shape the model's response in a way that you desired:
 <ul>
 <li> Zero Shot prompting - This is a method where the LLM is given no additional data on the specific task that it is being asked to perform. Instead, it is only given a prompt that describes the task. For example, if you want the LLM to answer a question, you just prompt "what is prompt design?".</li>
 <li> One-shot prompting - This is a method where the LLM is given a single example of the task that it is being asked to perform. For example, if you want the LLM to write a poem, you might give it a single example poem.</li>
 <li> Few-shot prompting - This is a method where the LLM is given a small number of examples of the task that it is being asked to perform. For example, if you want the LLM to write a news article, you might give it a few news articles to read.</li>
 </ul>

 2 Modes are present as well:
 <ul>
 <li> FREE-FORM -  This mode provides a free and easy approach to design your prompt. It is suitable for small and experimental prompts with no additional examples.</li>
 <li> STRUCTURED - This mode provides an easy-to-use template approach to prompt design. Context and multiple examples can be added to the prompt in this mode. This is especially useful for one-shot and few-shot prompting methods.</li>
 </ul>

 