# Vertex AI: Qwik Start

## Theory
Vertex AI is Google Cloud's next generation, unified platform for machine learning development and the successor to AI Platform announced at Google I/O in May 2021. By developing machine learning solutions on Vertex AI, you can leverage the latest ML pre-built components and AutoML to significantly enhance development productivity, the ability to scale your workflow and decision making with your data, and accelerate time to value.

## What we did

In this lab, we learnt:-

1. Train a TensorFlow model locally in a hosted Vertex Notebook.
2. Create a managed Tabular dataset artifact for experiment tracking.
3. Containerize your training code with Cloud Build and push it to Google Cloud Artifact Registry.
4. Run a Vertex AI custom training job with your custom model container.
5. Use Vertex TensorBoard to visualize model performance.
6. Deploy your trained model to a Vertex Online Prediction Endpoint for serving predictions.
7. Request an online prediction and explanation and see the response.


## Tasks Performed
1. Enable Google Cloud services
2. Create Vertex AI custom service account for Vertex Tensorboard integration
3. Launch Vertex AI Workbench notebook
4. Clone the lab repository
5. Install lab dependencies

## New Terms

1. **TensorFlow**:TensorFlow Enterprise provides a seamless, scalable and supported TensorFlow development experience across a variety of Google Cloud AI products. All TensorFlow Enterprise versions provide users with a Google Cloud optimized distribution of TensorFlow.

2. **Jupyter Notebook**:The Jupyter Notebook is an open-source web application that allows you to create and share documents that contain live code, equations, visualizations, and narrative text. Uses include data cleaning and transformation, numerical simulation, statistical modeling, data visualization, machine learning, and much more
