# APIs Explorer: Qwik Start

## Theory

The **Google APIs Explorer** is a tool that lets you explore various Google API methods without writing code.

1. Browse quickly through **APIs and its versions**.
2. See **methods** available for each API and what parameters they support along with inline documentation.
3. Execute **requests** for any method and see responses in **real time**.
4. Make **authenticated** and **authorized** API calls.
5. Search across all services, methods, and your recent requests to quickly find what you are looking for.

It uses its own **API Key** whenever a request is made. When you use the APIs Explorer to make a request, it displays the request syntax, which includes a placeholder labeled {YOUR_API_KEY}  If you want to make the same request in your application, you need to replace this placeholder with your own API key.

## What we did

In this Lab, we:
1. Created a Cloud Storage Bucket
2. Uploaded an image to it and made it public 
3. Made a request to the Vision API with that image.

## New Terms

1. **Fine grained Access Control** : enables you to use **IAM**(Identity Access Management) and Access Control Lists (**ACLs**) together to manage permissions.

2. **Bucket**: 
Buckets are the **basic containers** that hold your data. Everything that you store in Cloud Storage **must** be contained in a bucket. You can use buckets to organize your data and control access to your data, but unlike directories and folders, you cannot nest buckets.

3. **Cloud Vision API**: Cloud Vision allows developers to easily integrate vision detection features within applications, including **image labeling**, **face and landmark detection**, **optical character recognition (OCR)**, and tagging of explicit content.